README.md, before:

# Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the UK - Generic APIs
![GitHub go.mod Go version (branch & subdirectory of monorepo)](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis/development?filename=%2Fservice%2Fsrc%2Fgo.mod)
![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis)
[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis/alerts/)

APIs that power
the [map](https://coronavirus.data.gov.uk/details/interactive-map/cases), navigation, hierarchy, relations, banners, syndication feeds, [What's New](https://coronavirus.data.gov.uk/details/whats-new) page, and [Announcements](https://coronavirus.data.gov.uk/details/announcements) page.

See the [documentation (Swagger)](https://coronavirus.data.gov.uk/details/developers-guide/generic-api) for Generic APIs.
 
## Other repositories

Different parts of the Coronavirus dashboard service are maintained in their respective 
repositories, itemised as follows:
 
- [API v.1](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-api-v1) - Main API service for the data, lookup tables, CMS, and metadata.
- [API v.2.0](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-api-v2) - Batch downloads service [DEPRECATED in favour of v2.1]
- [API v.2.1](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-api-v2-server) - Batch downloads service
- [Frontend Server](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-frontend-server) - Home and postcode pages
- [Coronavirus Dashboard](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard) - Details pages
- [Easy-Read Server](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-easy-read) - Easy-read pages and PDF generator
- [Layout CMS](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-layouts) - Definition of contents
- [Metadata](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-metadata) - Description of metrics and textual contents
- [ETL Service](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-pipeline-etl) - Post-pipeline data processing and deployment
- [Terraform](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-terraform) - Infrastructure as Code [DEPRECATED in favour of ARM templates]


## Development and contribution

We welcome contributions by everyone. Please read 
the [contributions guide](https://github.com/PublicHealthEngland/coronavirus-dashboard/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for 
additional information.

### How can I help?
We have a [public project management board](https://github.com/orgs/PublicHealthEngland/projects/1) that 
shows outstanding issues to which everyone can contribute. Pick a ticket, assign it to 
yourself and move it to the **Doing** column, and you will be all set to start. There is 
also the [outstanding issues](https://github.com/PublicHealthEngland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis/issues) from 
which you can choose, but let us know that you are working on it so that multiple people 
don't end. up doing the same task.

No contribution is too small. We welcome help from everyone. Get in touch if you need 
additional information. We are here to help. 


## Credits
This service is developed and maintained by [Public Health England](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/public-health-england).


## Developer Notes

# Prerequisites
docker
docker-compose

```
docker-compose up --build
```
or 
```
docker-compose up -d --build
```


```
docker ps`
docker inspect 42fd15881e41 | grep IPAddress
pg_restore -h localhost -p 5432 -U postgres -d covid19 -v covid19.dump
```

Commit message:

added data folder and changes to Readme.md

README.md, after:

# Coronavirus (COVID-19) in the UK - Generic APIs
![GitHub go.mod Go version (branch & subdirectory of monorepo)](https://img.shields.io/github/go-mod/go-version/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis/development?filename=%2Fservice%2Fsrc%2Fgo.mod)
![GitHub commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis)
[![Total alerts](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/alerts/g/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis/alerts/)

APIs that power
the [map](https://coronavirus.data.gov.uk/details/interactive-map/cases), navigation, hierarchy, relations, banners, syndication feeds, [What's New](https://coronavirus.data.gov.uk/details/whats-new) page, and [Announcements](https://coronavirus.data.gov.uk/details/announcements) page.

See the [documentation (Swagger)](https://coronavirus.data.gov.uk/details/developers-guide/generic-api) for Generic APIs.
 
## Other repositories

Different parts of the Coronavirus dashboard service are maintained in their respective 
repositories, itemised as follows:
 
- [API v.1](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-api-v1) - Main API service for the data, lookup tables, CMS, and metadata.
- [API v.2.0](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-api-v2) - Batch downloads service [DEPRECATED in favour of v2.1]
- [API v.2.1](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-api-v2-server) - Batch downloads service
- [Frontend Server](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-frontend-server) - Home and postcode pages
- [Coronavirus Dashboard](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard) - Details pages
- [Easy-Read Server](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-easy-read) - Easy-read pages and PDF generator
- [Layout CMS](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-layouts) - Definition of contents
- [Metadata](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-metadata) - Description of metrics and textual contents
- [ETL Service](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-pipeline-etl) - Post-pipeline data processing and deployment
- [Terraform](https://github.com/publichealthengland/coronavirus-dashboard-terraform) - Infrastructure as Code [DEPRECATED in favour of ARM templates]


## Development and contribution

We welcome contributions by everyone. Please read 
the [contributions guide](https://github.com/PublicHealthEngland/coronavirus-dashboard/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for 
additional information.

### How can I help?
We have a [public project management board](https://github.com/orgs/PublicHealthEngland/projects/1) that 
shows outstanding issues to which everyone can contribute. Pick a ticket, assign it to 
yourself and move it to the **Doing** column, and you will be all set to start. There is 
also the [outstanding issues](https://github.com/PublicHealthEngland/coronavirus-dashboard-generic-apis/issues) from 
which you can choose, but let us know that you are working on it so that multiple people 
don't end. up doing the same task.

No contribution is too small. We welcome help from everyone. Get in touch if you need 
additional information. We are here to help. 


## Credits
This service is developed and maintained by [Public Health England](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/public-health-england).


## Developer Notes

### Prerequisites
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker)
- [Docker-Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install)

#### Docker setup
Run the following command to build the images. Omitting the -d (detached) flag is useful if one wants to monitor the output 
```
docker-compose up --build
```
or if you want to run the containers in detached mode
```
docker-compose up -d --build
```

If you have any issues execute
```
docker-compose logs
```

####PgAdmin4
1. Get the ip of the PostgreSQL server. Execute the following commands
```
docker ps
docker inspect 42fd15881e41 | grep IPAddress
```
2. Connect to PgAdmin by navigating to http://localhost:5000 and enter the username and password    
   PGADMIN_DEFAULT_EMAIL: admin@admin.com
   PGADMIN_DEFAULT_PASSWORD: root
   specified in the docker-compose.yml as environment variables
3. Connect to the server using the ip address above and the credential specified in the docker-compose file
4. Execute the schema.sql in the data folder to apply some changes to the database.
5. Restore the database 
```
pg_restore -h localhost -p 5432 -U postgres -d covid19 -v covid19.dump
```
